when you tell people that you
you do cave diving and say oh
you must be an adrenaline junkie
but in fact it's the exact
opposite when i get underground
underwater it's a hundred
percent focus and all you hear
is really the sound of your own
breath and you're you're in kind
of a for me what some people
call the flow or the zend it's
this whole experience of columns
when all is going well
all systems go you just feel
like really you're on this magic
carpet ride through the
underworld you know the flipside
of being this otherworldly
environment the danger and it's
a pretty good challenges to go
into an underwater cave and come
out alive
I've had a lot of friends who
died in these kids
in the moment you don't let
these outside thoughts come in
about stream danger you really
just focus on making sure all
your systems are going on
navigating and then you start
adding the science the filming
collecting data taking pictures
different sorts of sampling it's
really a multitasking challenge
when people ask me what I like
best about going to a cable
what's the neatest thing you
found it's less what I found the
experience i guess the greatest
thing I ever found under water
was an ability to keep myself
calm and I try to take that and
bring it to the surface
I'm realizing that we're really
just scratching the surface of
what is really here
I didn't expect anything that
beautiful to exist